# Participant 1

I> What got you interested in VRChat in the first place? Why did you start playing?
P> Hum... Let's see... why did I start playing? Just saw it randomly one day one steam, on my recommended page. And I was like, --Yea, VRChat, what is that all about? So I clicked on that, read what it was about, saw some reviews, and I was like herm... you know what? I'll try it out.
I> A lot of people, myself included started playing VRChat during the quarantine. 
P> Hum yea. A lot of players started doing that.
I> What motivated you to stay aground? To keep playing.
P> Mostly friends. And just having conversations with random people every day. And trying to help people if they are having a bad day or bad time. Try to make their day a little better, by making jokes, or giving them advice, in life.
I> Could you talk about some memorable interactions you had with people? Something you really enjoyed?
P> Hum... Yea, It happened back in 2019, there was a guy who was gonna serve a prison sentence cause he had been dealing drugs so he was going away for 2.5 years. I just told him: I is what it is, you got caught doing stupid shit. You just gotta do your time. If you think about it, 2.5 years it's not bad for dealing drugs, it could have been worse, you could have got killed.
So I kept in touch with him, when he went to jail and stuff. He's doing really well now. He's clean, he's got a job and stuff. I helped him as much as I could?
I> Would you say you established intimate relationships in VRChat?
P> I mean, I've had a couple of intimate relationships, some girlfriends.
I> Could you talk about them?
P> Yea, sure, I could talk about them.
I> I'm especially interested in how you experienced them, how it felt.
P> At first it was kinda hard, cause of the long distance relationship. But after a while you just got used to it. But it just got so hard, cause, you know, time zones... we both had jobs and stuff like that, so we just kinda drifter apart. That's the only negative thing about having a relationship in this game.
I> Would you say that the VR medium changes things compared to voice, video or text chat? Did it affect things for you?
P> No not really. It's basicly the same.
I> VR and PC felt about the same? 
P> Yea, it was mostly interaction with other people
I> You see some people here getting physical.
P> Oh Yea, Yea. You see that everywhere you go. I mean, I have done it to people. Yes, but that's only because they like that sort of touchy feely kind of thing.
I> What did it feel like?
P> Yea, I guess it did feel close and intimate. But I've never really thought about that.
I> How do you feel VR affects intimacy and relationships compared to other online mediums?
P> I mean... VR is... VR is really a big factor when you're having a relationship in this game. I mean, sure, you can play on desktop, you can do that, but it's not the same thing. When you are in VR you get a sense of I'm so close to this person, yet so far away, but it doesn't matter because they're right there in a sense.
I> How does that make you feel? Closer to an online relationship or in person relationship?
P> Hum. That's a hard question.
I> You can skip it if you want, but do you have some thoughts on the matter?
P> It would be closer to a real life relationship if you think about it. Because you're closer to the person in technicality, but in reality you're not. It's that subconscious kind of thinking. You're with them but not really. At the same time...
I> So you feel, their presence more in VR?
P> Yea, exactly.
I> I've met people who started online relationships in VR, and then transitioned to an in person relationships.
P> Yea, I have a bunch of friends that got married over this game?
I> Married?
P> Yea, it's a fun time. You feel like the person is there, but they are actually not there at the same time.
