# Participant 2

I> The first question is, What got you interested in VRChat in the first place?
P> I do remember my first thought was how wacky it was. People got to be different people, but the same person at the same time. And I was intrigued by that. So after saving a shit tone of money, I got a quest. Wish I had gotten a more advanced headset, but whatever, I didn't have the money. And... I remember when I first came in, it just felt like a new world, and I just felt happier here than anywhere else I've been for once. and then, just explored every server, met every kind of person you can meet here. I think the fun of it was that it's kind of real life kinda, you can enter a place meet new different people. Bad good, it doesn't matter... they're all people in the end. So, it kinda helps with me, when it comes to my anxiety to then, in real life, actually go do stuff. And some people can't  do that.
I> Did you start on VR imediatly? Or did you start on PC first>
P> Hum... I played PC first, like, a long time ago, but it was before I even knew anything about it. So I left imediatly and didn't get back to it untill I got the quest.
I> Did it feel different when you first tried it in VR?
P> Yea, definitely, I felt like I was there. Everything just felt like a real world experience?
I> So your motivation was exploration and meeting new people. Is that what keeps you comming back?
P> I'd say It still to meet new people. Like, recently I started not doing that cause I made so many friends. But then it's like, I realize that even though it's nice talking to these people, it kind got rid of that experience of coming back to experience a new kind of person, a new kind of world through experience. People liking things you that you don't like, you now? that's just interesting. Now I'm back here doing that again.
I> So your favourite part of VRChat is interacting with people or meeting new people?
P> I'd say both honestly, it's just fascinating?
I> Could you tell me about friendships you made? That you enjoyed? 
P> Hum... Yea, I can definitely say with my first group of friends I made, it wasn't just one person, it was a whole group, which was the funniest shit ever. And they're still my closest friends here. And I feel they are like family to me nowadays. I went to another server and met another group of people who are now also like family so... These are my friends to me here, just like family, that I care about, that I would do anything for. To at least just talk to or hang out with for once in a while.
I> How did that relationship come to be? How did it build up?
P> First group, we were playing Murder 4, first time hopping on and the first guy I met on there, he was doing a goofy impression and was referencing the whole goofy court thing. And it was hilarious and I joined in, and then he introduced me to his friends who were still in the world. So it just became this big group of people. ANd I was the popular one for a while, which was odd..., and then I just became one of them.
I> How did that make you feel?
P> Being the popular one?
I> Yes?
P> Felt great but odd at the same time, because I didn't really know how to handle it.
In the end I still think if it wasn't for me hopping in that server and becoming slightly popular for a while that I wouldn't end up here because  I would've probably still been in my shell of antisocialness.
I> So you feel it helped with antisocialness?
P> Yes, definitely.
I> Have you experienced moments of intimacy in VRChat?
P> Hum... [pause] No I haven't surprisingly. I know a lot of people have, but for me, I just don't really... it's not that I don't want to it
's more just the aspect of do my own thing ... kind of.
I> You wouldn't describe your relationships as intimate? How would you describe them>
P> Like a brother and a sister you know? Give them a pat on the back, have a good hangout, and then go off to your thing for a while and then come back and it's the same experience?
I> What's your definition of intimacy?
P> For me, intimacy is more romance, that's how I grew up looking at, so like... kissing and romantically touching kind of stuff and then sex and all that. That's kind of what I see as intimate.
I> Do you feel that VR, compared to PC or video chat changes the way that people feel intimacy?
P> Hum... yea, I'd say definitely it changes so much, because on PC you can't really do much, and same thing just being on a call... you can't really do anything, you're just on the other side. And even here, it's still that same aspect of being on the other side, but being there at the same time, which just feels so much better... in my preferable opinion.
I> What do you mean by "do something"?
P> Hum... [long pause] hum... I feel like doing something is like... because on a call you can still like... chat and all but you can't really hug or give high fives or show that full expression of yourself, especially on PC you don't even have hands or can't really turn your head. So when it comes to VR you get to be there... be there actually showing real affection kind of. It's like a weird wavelength... thing... like you feel like you're there and you can touch them.
I> How would you explain it to somebody that never experienced it?
P> Hum... Well, first VR, with the like... whole caring thing. So when it comes to ... sigh... But hum... I think it's the feeling of being real for me, when I look at it. It's like going out and meeting these people in person. Like, they're not themselves, but they still have that personally attached to them in the end. And that's what I'm drawn to, personality, so being there in VR, is just like, to me, being there in real life with them.
I> You called it affection, a personal connection. Can you recall any moment when you felt that strongly? Any memorable episodes?
P> I have a few, but one of the ones that stand out the most for me, was when me and my friends were hanging out and one of their girlfriends at the time, broke up with them on the spot, like in front of us all, and... It wasn't like through text message, where you have to comfort them through text or a video call where you have to look at them be sad you know? You actually can be next to them and show your support and care for the... And that experience was just so sad for them especially but we all comforted him and they felt better. And then we went out into other servers like prison escape and all that and he felt so much better afterwards.
I> You feel that's unique to VR?
P> Yea, I definitely say VR is, again my opinion, the best way to socialize. If you can't go out of your house because of COVID or you actually have a problem that keeps you home, then VR is one step to improving through it all and actually still socializing in the end.
I> You defined intimacy as physical intimacy, romance and sex. How do you feel about people who are mostly motivated by those intimate moments and pursue relationships in VR?
P> Laughs... I think, for me, they can just do what they want. That's just how I look at it. If someone wants to do that stuff, or actually just fall in love in VR. It's their choice, I can't judge them.
I> How does it make you feel?
P> How does it make me feel? I don't really feel anything towards it. I've seen people get cuddly and make out and stuff in VR. I think for me it just makes you feel kind of happy, if that makes sense. Because it's like, I think the reason it makes me sometimes somewhat happy, unless they are doing sex in VR than that's kinda like... that's.. they should be doing that somewhere else. When it comes to just making out or just showing a lot of affection for each other as a couple in like VR, in like public places or with friends around, it's just kind of cheery and really a happy thing to watch because you are watching two people from two entirely different places and fall in love and still show that strong connection... cause... I know from myself and a few other people that in VR you don't feel like its a long distance relationship because you feel like you're actually there. So... It's like... It's a weird topic when it comes to that. But it feels better in VR. 
I> That's interesting, why do you say it's weird? And why does it feel better in VR?
P> Hum... because it feels like you're actually with them unlike through a call or through text, where you feel a disconnection. Because on a call you can't hug them. You can hug your phone, but it just doesn't feel the same. And some people might say it's the same for this, but for me, it like... you know, you're there, your body is moving, you see it with your own eyes, you're in that world like if you were in real life. So it kinda just feels stronger here, that disconnection feels gone, because you're actually there with each-other.
I> A lot of people have been mentioning this sense of presence you talked about. 
P> Exactly. 
I> By the way, why are we, and a lot of people hanging out by the mirrors? Why is this so common in VRChat?
P> Hum...I remember when I first hopped on VR, the first thing I did was go to a mirror cause I wanted to observe myself and see this new me. You know, it's me, my usual self, but different body, different everything. And it made me feel great and for a long time I was, as people call, a mirror dweller. But being a mirror dweller I then become more social, because people like me either wanted to observe themselves or feel kind of ... hum... isolated as well, would come here and we'd all chat.
I> So it works as a hangout stop as well as a place to observe yourself?
P> [nods affirmatively]
I> Why do you like observing yourself?
P> Even though I've been here for a year what always makes me keep looking at myself in the mirror in VR is that the same feeling when I first hopped on never changed. I still feel so happy and different than ... hum... here and not, like, my real self. It's like that weird feeling, a weird feeling of like it's you, who you think you are, but it's not what you are in real life.
I> Why does it feel like you?
P> I know a lot of people, probably everyone I've ever met, including myself. They don't really like they way they are in real life, so they come to here in VR to become the person they wanted to be. Whether it's either one gender or the other, one body type or the other, it
s just how they wanna be on here, that's what brings them to look at themselves in the mirror and even just socialize at times.
I> Your brought up a lot of very interesting concept. Something that keeps coming up, is the idea of being there "Feels like you're there". I wonder if it is satisfying or frustrating.
P> Definitely satisfying for me. For me, like with this person here I can just strike through them, of course some people can feel it, cause "phantom sense", but for me that doesn't bother me if someone tries to hug me. 
I> Phantom Sense? What is that?
P> There is actually a real study about not just even VR, but in real life, when someone loses their arm in war and gets it amputated they still feel their arm there even though it isn't. So in VR it takes it kinda to a different level. Your body is still intact, but when somebody touches you in here, you feel it. I personally don't feel phantom sense. I know a few people who do, but every-time I ask them about it, they tell me how it's either like a light cold touch or warm even, or others will say it's like a sharp pain, especially if they got, like, shot in VR. 
I think it's like a neurological link towards what you see and what you feel.
