# Participant 3

I> I'd like to start the conversation at why you started playing VRChat in the first place.
P> I start playing VRChat when the world shut down. It was a easier way to communicate with people instead of being inside doing nothing. And I got addicted to this game really quickly.
I> What got you addicted?
P> There is just something with this game! There are so many weird nice people and it's amazing.
I> What did you think was addictive about it?
P> hum... ahhhhh... hum... I feel like this game just hit me really well. I like meeting new people, I might be scared of meeting new people. So like, I think the avatar might be easier, cause like, if people don't like it you can just change it.
I> So do you feel that your motivation to play has changed over time?
P> Maybe. if that makes sense. Also, this year, I got a girlfriend in here.
I> You got a girlfriend in VRChat?
P> Yea, I met her in Easter actually. And I'm meeting her next week again. I'm going to meet her soon again. She lives in Sweden, I will drive 14 hours. I will make it.
I> You guys met in VRChat?
P> Yea, we met in VRChat.
I> How did VR affect that meeting? Can you talk about how you met her?
P> When we first met in VRChat?
I> Yes.
P> We both were drunk. I just met this girl, and she was Swedish, so I just kept talking. She was the only person I hadn't talked to at the bar. I knew everyone else except her, so I started talking with her, and it was really interesting. So I felt like this is a person I wanna talk with more and continue with talking.
I> Did the fact that it was VR affect it? Or it would have been the same over text or video chat?
P> I don't think so, I think it had to be VR. You can like ... when you are interacting with people it's more realistic than texting or video chat. Because like when you're just texting you can't hear their voice, see their actions...
I> What about comparing to Video Call?
P> I don't think they're the same because then people might be scared of showing their real self, because like... you don't wanna mess this up showing yourself. Like, me myself, I have some fat... but I don't care that much... but like, some people will judge that and choose not to be your friend because of how you look. 
I> VR feels safer because you're not showing yourself?
P> That's one of the reasons. Maybe the sense of presence in VR as well... It's not a big deal, like I don't have to have it. But  it's more realistic, like sleeping together and looking to them next to you.
I> People sleep together in VR?
P> Yea, people do that a lot, I do that every day. It feels like you're with the person that you like. Like they're with you. You have a bed pillow, and they feel like they're actually there, but they're not there.
I> So what would you say is the most intimate experience you shared in VR?
P> Can you ask the question in a easier way?
I> While you were in VR, what was the moment when you felt the most intimate with someone else?
P> I... argh... I'm not sure. I... have been drinking a lot in this game and also another thing I like in VR is drinking and having fun with friends. Like you're still home safe, so like... That's important for me that I'm just sitting here, I might puke here, I'm safe, I'm sitting and still having fun and interacting.
I> You'd say that's the most intimate moment you shared in VR? Drinking together?
P> Maybe... IDK. I haven't been playing a lot since January.
I> Another topic I'd like to talk about, is how do you feel about intimacy in VRChat, and people using VR to be intimate.
P> I think it's amazing.
I> By the way. What did it feel like when you met your girlfriend in person? Did it feel like meeting a new person, or an acquaintance?
P> More, more like I knew her already. But I found some new parts.
I> There's a lot of people sitting by that mirror, I wonder why.
P> It's weird. When I got the VR Headset, the game became a completely new experience, I started petting people and sitting by the mirror as well. It's weird, you jump into this game, and all these weird things become normal, you see them every day and you do them as well.
